HF-122: Framework integration guides for React, Angular, Vue, Svelte (#1653)
handsontable/hyperformula: docs/guide/integration-with-svelte.md

# Integration with Svelte

> The HyperFormula API is identical in a Svelte app and in plain JavaScript. What changes is how you scope the engine to a component's lifetime and how you bridge its values into Svelte's reactivity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HyperFormula API is identical in a Svelte app and in plain JavaScript. This guide demonstrates how HyperFormula integrates with the Svelte component's lifecycle and how you bridge its values into Svelte's reactivity.
```

Author: Adopted verbatim in [`b080681`](https://github.com/handsontable/hyperformula/pull/1653/commits/b080681dc). Better wording — thanks.

Install with `npm install hyperformula`. For other options, see the [client-side installation](client-side-installation.md) section.

::: warning SvelteKit SSR
The primary snippet below assumes a browser environment. If you use SvelteKit with default SSR, skip to [Server-side rendering](#server-side-rendering-sveltekit) — `HyperFormula.buildFromArray` at `<script>` top level will crash on the server.
:::

## Basic usage

Declare the engine at the top of `<script>` so it lives for the component's lifetime. Call `getCellValue` on demand and display results in the template. Release the engine with `onDestroy`.

> ```svelte

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```html
```

Author: Applied — switched both Svelte fences to `html` in [`b080681`](https://github.com/handsontable/hyperformula/pull/1653/commits/b080681dc). VuePress 1's highlighter does not recognize `svelte`, so it was rendering as plain text.

  ];

  const hf = HyperFormula.buildFromArray(data, {
    licenseKey: 'gpl-v3',
    // more configuration options go here
  });

  const sheetId = 0;
  /** @type {import('hyperformula').CellValue} */
  let result = null;

  function calculate() {
    result = hf.getCellValue({ sheet: sheetId, row: 0, col: 2 });
  }

  function reset() {
    result = null;
  }

  onDestroy(() => hf.destroy());
</script>

<button on:click={calculate}>Run calculations</button>
<button on:click={reset}>Reset</button>
{#if result !== null}
  <p>Result: <strong>{result}</strong></p>
{/if}

<table>
  <tbody>
    {#each data as row, r}
      <tr>
        {#each row as cell, c}
          <td>
            {#if hf.doesCellHaveFormula({ sheet: sheetId, row: r, col: c })}
              {hf.getCellFormula({ sheet: sheetId, row: r, col: c })}
            {:else}
              {hf.getCellValue({ sheet: sheetId, row: r, col: c })}
            {/if}
          </td>
        {/each}
      </tr>
    {/each}
  </tbody>
</table>
```

## Server-side rendering (SvelteKit)

HyperFormula depends on browser-only APIs. In SvelteKit, initialize the engine inside `onMount` so the code never runs during SSR:

> ```svelte

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```html
```

Author: Applied — switched both Svelte fences to `html` in [`b080681`](https://github.com/handsontable/hyperformula/pull/1653/commits/b080681dc). VuePress 1's highlighter does not recognize `svelte`, so it was rendering as plain text.
